---
title: Shunter Migration Guide, 1.0 to 2.0 - Shunter Documentation
layout: docs
docpath: /migration/2.0.html
docversion: 3.0.2
docbaseurl: /docs/3.0.2
---

Shunter Migration Guide, 1.0 to 2.0
===================================

This guide outlines how to migrate from Shunter 1.x to Shunter 2.x. It outlines breaking changes which might cause issues when you upgrade.


Template Testing
----------------

The DOM library used in [template testing](../usage/testing.html#testing-templates) has changed from jsdom to [Cheerio](https://github.com/cheeriojs/cheerio). This brings us closer to supporting Node.js 4.x.

The `dom` object that you access in template tests is now a Cheerio instance, and regualar DOM access is no longer available. You may need to update your tests.

One notable change is that the `:first` and `:last` pseudo-selectors are no longer available in `$()` and `.find()` calls. You're encouraged to use the `.first()` and `.last()` methods of a Cheerio instance instead.


PhantomJS
---------

PhantomJS installation has been removed from Shunter, which means that `shunter-test-client` will not run unless you have installed PhantomJS separately.


EJS Extension Changes
---------------------

EJS extensions now receive three parameters rather than two. The original parameter ordering was:

{% highlight js %}
function (environment, config) {}
{% endhighlight %}

Now it's:

{% highlight js %}
function (environment, manifest, config) {}
{% endhighlight %}

See [Writing EJS Extensions](../usage/resources.html#writing-ejs-extensions) for more information.


CSS Compilation Changes
-----------------------

CSS files built by Shunter no longer have automatic `rem` to `px` replacement for older browsers.

Also, small image assets are no longer inlined as Base64 URLs.

Both of these can be replaced using an EJS extension in your application.
