# Shunter Migration Guide, 1.0 to 2.0

This guide outlines how to migrate from Shunter 1.x to Shunter 2.x. It outlines breaking changes which might cause issues when you upgrade.

## Template Testing

The DOM library used in [template testing](../testing.md#testing-templates) has changed from jsdom to [Cheerio](https://github.com/cheeriojs/cheerio). This brings us closer to supporting Node.js 4.x.

The `dom` object that you access in template tests is now a Cheerio instance, and regualar DOM access is no longer available. You may need to update your tests.

One notable change is that the `:first` and `:last` pseudo-selectors are no longer available in `$()` and `.find()` calls. You're encouraged to use the `.first()` and `.last()` methods of a Cheerio instance instead.

## PhantomJS

PhantomJS installation has been removed from Shunter, which means that `shunter-test-client` will not run unless you have installed PhantomJS separately.

## EJS Extension Changes

EJS extensions now receive three parameters rather than two. The original parameter ordering was:

```js
function (environment, config) {}
```

Now it's:

```js
function (environment, manifest, config) {}
```

See [Writing EJS Extensions](../resources.md#writing-ejs-extensions) for more information.

## CSS Compilation Changes

CSS files built by Shunter no longer have automatic `rem` to `px` replacement for older browsers.

Also, small image assets are no longer inlined as Base64 URLs.

Both of these can be replaced using an EJS extension in your application.
